What I've encountered so fat in Learn Python the Hard Way:
A Pokedex :)

`print "text."`
`print "Text.", variable, "More text"`
`print "%s Text." % variable`
`print "%r Text: %d" % (raw_variable, int_variable)`
`print "Text and " + "more text."`
`print "Text and %s." %"more text"`
`print "This will not have a \n",`
`print "Spam!" * 16`
print displays text to the right of it that is in parentheses on the coomand line.
It can use variables as well embedded in the text in two ways.
    One is to use comas and stick the variable wherever it goes. Print will stringify and concatenate.
    The other is to use % after the text followed by the variable, or variables in parantheses.
	%s is for strings
	%r is for raw data however it comes. good for debugging.
	%d is for integers
	%f is for floating points
print automatically puts a `\n` newline character at the end so that the next line doesn't run on from the print statement.
You can opt out of that by using a comma at the end of the statement.
If you include a multiply operator, print will repeat the text that many times.

`"text."`
An example of a string, which is a basic data type made up of an immutable sequence of characters, whitespace and numbers.

`#`
Hash is a comment. Everthing on the same line to the right of it is ignored by the program, but can be read by another developer to know what's up with the code. It is the code that is for the human component of the program, but likely not for the user.

`25`
An example of an integer. Integer is a data type in pyhton along with strings, booleans, and floating point numbers.

`+`
Adds numbers together, or if a string, concatenates.

`-`
Subtracts numbers
if no number on the left, makes the number on the right a negative number.

`*`
Multiplies numbers

`/`
Divides numbers

`%`
When used as an operator for numbers, modulates them (returns the remainder of a division)

`<`
Less-than operator. compares numbers to right and left. Returns True if the relationship is true, else False.

`>`
Greater-than operator, see above ^

`>=`
Greater-than-or-equal-to operator, see above ^

`<=`
Less-than-or-equal-to-operator, see above ^

`==`
equal-to operator, see above ^

`_`
used in names to make it more human-readable

`4.0`
Floating point number, called a float. nay number with a decimal point is one of these. Python allows for indefinately precise floating point numbers. The limit to precision is the hardware's RAM. If you try to mix data types, add an int to a float, python returns a float.

`name = 'Zed A. Shaw'`
This is a variable. It is characterized by a name, which can be any A-z, _, and 0-9 characters in a row that is not started by a number. the = sign here assigns the variable a value. In this case the `name` variable is assigned a string as it's value.

`round(number[, ndigits])`
This is a builtin function in python. round rounds the number to the nearest specified decimal. If none is selected, the decimal is set to zero. But it's a little tricky in certain situations. for more info: https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html#round

`False`
This is an example of a boolean data type, a true or false value. The only other boolean is `True`. It can also be represented as 0 and 1. `0 == False` and `1 == True`.

`\n`
Newline character. This is a two-character representation in code of a signle special character in white space. It is the character that is invisibly typed whenever you hit ENTER in a word processor. It has friends, but it should be noted independently because it's something to watch out for.

```
"""
block
of
text
"""
```
Three quotes are useful in print statements when you have to type out multiple lines or a small novel.
If you use `'''` It will give you the raw version of the text, so any \n or other escape characters will be printed as-is.
useful for debugging. Make sure to escape out any of the same quotes in the text.

`\t`

Tab character. Does what the TAB key does.

`\\`

Escaped Backslash. It's a backslash, but not one used to escape a character or indicate a special character.

`raw_input()`

A very useful function that allows for input from the command line as the script is running.

`from sys import argv`
`script, first, second, third = argv`

this is two things.
`from` and `import` allow python scripts to be modular. That way large script aren't just a mile ling list of porceedures. With this, scripts can be short so you can get to the part you need to improve quickly and with less chance for confusion or mistakes. It also allows for lighter weight scripts, because you can just import the functionality your script is using, not the whole of all python code.
`sys` is a python library, a repository of a number of useful functions related to the system in this case. Other libaraies are numpy or scipy, for example. 
`argv` is how parameters are pushed into the script from the command line before the script runs.
You have to unpack argv with a series of variable names, usually starting with `script` for the script itself named for the file name you made it, and then whatever names you want to use for the others within your script. 
Like `raw_input()` it is a very useful function!

`open()`

Open creates a file object out of a file that the python script can interact with. It has modes, like `r` for read, `w` for write and `a` for append. There are additional features as well. https://docs.python.org/2/library/functions.html#open

`my_file.read()`

This is a method of a file object. It reads until the file's size or End-Of_File marker has been reached, unless specified by a second argument. It is basically a wrapper for the C language stdio package's fread().

`my_file.truncate()`

this is another method of a file object. This essentially deletes the file past byte 0.

`my_file.write()`

Yet another method of a file object. This one writes to the file whatever you pass it in the parentheses.

`my_file.close()`

This method closes the file so that no more data can be written to it or accessed from it from the script.

`os.path`

this is a module. `os` has a library of functions to do with the computer's file system. `os.path` has functions on pathnames. Pathnames are the name of the location of a file in your system's file structure. absolute pathnames start with `/`, which represents the home directory, and then delineates every "folder" the file in question is nested in from there, like a series of matrushka dolls. A relative pathname gives the position of a file in relation to where in that file stucture the script itself is running. If the file structure is like a map, absolute would say "/milkyway/solsystem/earth/unitedstates/california/pasadena/10coloradoave/unit301" relative would say "10coloradoave/unit301" basically, it's the difference between a formal letter you're mailing at the post office, and an informal letter that just says "mom" or "for the jerk in 201 who plays loud music every night".

`os.path.exists(my_path)`

this is one of the functions that is in the os.path module. It returns `True` if the path is a real address. It returns `False` if it is not. This allows for a cript to check if links to files are broken, or if the file itself exists.

`def`

This keyword lets python know the following code which is indented 4 spaces is a function and should only be run as a block when called by the script. It will not run at all if you don't call it at some point later. It can also be called multiple times without having to rewrite the code. Functions make for much drier code than a purely scripted program. Dry code comes from the acronym D.R.Y. (do not repeat yourself), a general pronouncement concerning good coding practices.

`def my_function(*args)`
`arg1, arg2 = args`

`*args` is a function version of `sys`'s `argv`. It takes the number of arguments given in the second line to unpack. The arguments must be separated by commas. If you do not provide exactly that number of arguments, an error message is raised.

`def my_function(arg1, arg2)`

This is the more common way of writing arguments into a function. A function can take 0 arguments: `my_function()` or as many as you like, but it's rare to have more than 5, and 3 is a more ideal maximum.

Arguments can be a lot of different things. You can pass various data types: strings, integers, floats, booleans. You can pass operators that resolve into something final: concatenated strings, arithmetic, as long as it has real values and can be resolved. You can pass variables that evaluate to a data type, and you can pass any combination of these. You can even pass other functions as arguments to the function.
